So guys, going forward to discuss the problem, number one, the size of the table matters, it means
that there will be problem if you tend to increase the size of page table.
So let us try to understand this problem with the help of numerical example.
So let us discuss the scenario.
Number one, suppose you have a 32 bit system and when memory size is four, GBE size of the page is
four kilobyte as usual.
And let us suppose that the size of one entry in a peace table is four bytes now that you have already
practiced similar numerical assignments.
Now you should be able to compute that given this data the size of the peace table, the process would
going to be four megabytes and this size of this table is absolutely OK.
So suppose if you are machine on an average is running hundred processors, then the main memory consumption's
because of only peace tables will be fought in two hundred.
That is, 400 megabytes of your main memory will be used only to store pays tables of hundred processors.
So given the configuration of the machine, 400 megabytes out of this four GB is a very reasonable size
of main memory, which is dedicated to peace tables only.
So it doesn't look like a problem here.
Now let us change the scenario and change the configuration of the system.
Now, suppose you have a 64 bit system size of the main memory is FGB.
This size is four kilobits, as usual.
And let us suppose that the size of the table entry is four bytes.
Now, again, calculate the size of the table purposes with this data and you will find that the size
of the table is humongous.
You will need to rest with about 34 megabytes off this table and this is for each process.
It is absolutely not feasible to have tables of this size.
I don't even know how much memory this is.
Is it in terabytes or petabytes?
Now, most likely, if you have putting your machine or laptop in a year or two, most probably your
machine is a 64 bit system.
You can go to my computer and click on properties and check whether your system is a 32 bit system or
64 bit system.
Now, a 64 bit systems are more common than 32 big systems.
So what do you think?
Does each process running on your 64 bit system has been staples of this size?
The answer is no.
It is not possible.
So you can see that the problem of a stable size grows more aggrieved as much electricity is supported
by the system increases.
Right.
And I have already explained that while there is a need to migrate from 32 bit system to 64 bit system,
right.
Remember, 32 bit system cannot access your physical memory beyond 4G now.
We already discussed the reasons behind it.
Therefore today we have sixty four bit system so that we can have access to more ram and hence enhances
the speed and multitasking ability of the system.
Right.
But as you migrate from 32 bit system to 64 bit systems, the stable size would tend to increase.
Having a stable of this giant size, what does this giant size to restore the power to the four megabytes
is also not feasible, right?
So on one hand, you want to migrate from 32 bit system to 64 bit system.
And on the other hand, there is a problem that if you try to migrate your size of the stable glass
to the extent that you cannot even think, would that be stable in your main memory?
So what is the solution to this problem?
So the solution to this problem was multilabel paging, which we were going to discuss in a separate
section altogether.